August 25, 1991 Dear friend,
 I am writing to you because she said you listen and understand and didn’t try to sleep with that
person at that party even though you could have. Please don’t try to figure out who she is because
then you might figure out who I am, and I really don’t want you to do that. I will call people by
different names or generic names because I don’t want you to find me. I didn’t enclose a return address
for the same reason. I mean nothing bad by this. Honest.
 I just need to know that someone out there listens and understands and doesn’t try to sleep with
people even if they could have. I need to know that these people exist.
 I think you of all people would understand that because I think you of all people are alive and
appreciate what that means. At least I hope you do because other people look to you for strength
and friendship and it’s that simple. At least that’s what I’ve heard.
 So, this is my life. And I want you to know that I am both happy and sad and I’m still trying to
figure out how that could be.
 I try to think of my family as a reason for me being this way, especially after my friend Michael
stopped going to school one day last spring and we heard Mr. Vaughn’s voice on the loudspeaker.
 “Boys and girls, I regret to inform you that one of our students has passed on. We will hold a
memorial service for Michael Dobson during assembly this Friday.”
 I don’t know how news travels around school and why it is very often right. Maybe it was in the
lunchroom. It’s hard to remember. But Dave with the awkward glasses told us that Michael killed
himself. His mom played bridge with one of Michael’s neighbors and they heard the gunshot.
 I don’t really remember much of what happened after that except that my older brother came
to Mr. Vaughn’s office in my middle school and told me to stop crying. Then, he put his arm on
my shoulder and told me to get it out of my system before Dad came home. We then went to eat
french fries at McDonald’s and he taught me how to play pinball. He even made a joke that because
of me he got to skip an afternoon of school and asked me if I wanted to help him work on
his Camaro. I guess I was pretty messy because he never let me work on his Camaro before.
 At the guidance counselor sessions, they asked the few of us who actually liked Michael to say a
few words. I think they were afraid that some of us would try to kill ourselves or something because
they looked very tense and one of them kept touching his beard.
 Bridget who is crazy said that sometimes she thought about suicide when commercials come on
during TV. She was sincere and this puzzled the guidance counselors. Carl who is nice to everyone
said that he felt very sad, but could never kill himself because it is a sin.
 This one guidance counselor went through the whole group and finally came to me.
 “What do you think, Charlie?”
 What was so strange about this was the fact that I had never met this man because he was a 
5
“specialist” and he knew my name even though I wasn’t wearing a name tag like they do in open
house.
 “Well, I think that Michael was a nice guy and I don’t understand why he did it. As much as I
feel sad, I think that not knowing is what really bothers me.”
 I just reread that and it doesn’t sound like how I talk. Especially in that office because I was crying
still. I never did stop crying.
 The counselor said that he suspected that Michael had “problems at home” and didn’t feel like
he had anyone to talk to. That’s maybe why he felt all alone and killed himself.
 Then, I started screaming at the guidance counselor that Michael could have talked to me. And
I started crying even harder. He tried to calm me down by saying that he meant an adult like a
teacher or a guidance counselor. But it didn’t work and eventually my brother came by the middle
school in his Camaro to pick me up.
 For the rest of the school year, the teachers treated me different and gave me better grades even
though I didn’t get any smarter. To tell you the truth, I think I made them all nervous.
 Michael’s funeral was strange because his father didn’t cry. And three months later he left Michael’s
mom. At least according to Dave at lunchtime. I think about it sometimes. I wonder what
went on in Michael’s house around dinner and TV shows. Michael never left a note or at least his
parents didn’t let anyone see it. Maybe it was “problems at home.” I wish I knew. It might make
me miss him more clearly. It might have made sad sense.
 One thing I do know is that it makes me wonder if I have “problems at home” but it seems to
me that a lot of other people have it a lot worse. Like when my sister’s first boyfriend started going
around with another girl and my sister cried for the whole weekend.
 My dad said, “There are other people who have it a lot worse.”
 And my mom was quiet. And that was that. A month later, my sister met another boy and
started playing happy records again. And my dad kept working. And my mom kept sweeping.
And my brother kept fixing his Camaro. That is, until he left for college at the beginning of the
summer. He’s playing football for Penn State but he needed the summer to get his grades right to
play football.
 I don’t think that there is a favorite kid in our family. There are three of us and I am the youngest.
My brother is the oldest. He is a very good football player and likes his car. My sister is very
pretty and mean to boys and she is in the middle. I get straight A’s now like my sister and that is
why they leave me alone.
 My mom cries a lot during TV programs. My dad works a lot and is an honest man. My Aunt
Helen used to say that my dad was going to be too proud to have a midlife crisis. It took me until
around now to understand what she meant by that because he just turned forty and nothing has
changed.
 My Aunt Helen was my favorite person in the whole world. She was my mom’s sister. She got
straight A’s when she was a teenager and she used to give me books to read. My father said that the
books were a little too old for me, but I liked them so he just shrugged and let me read.